---
title: Creating a Django Project
courseid: django101
order: 102
layout: lecture
---

## Creating a Project

```bash
$ django-admin startproject fishare
```


## Structure of a New Project

Pozrime sa na strukturu vytvoreneho projektu:

```bash
$ tree fishare
fishare
├── fishare
│   ├── asgi.py
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── settings.py
│   ├── urls.py
│   └── wsgi.py
└── manage.py
```

Vyznam jednotlivych suborov a priecinkov je nasledovny:

These files are:

* The outer `fishare/` root directory is a container for your project. Its name doesn’t matter to Django; you can rename it to anything you like.

* `manage.py`: A command-line utility that lets you interact with this Django project in various ways. You can read all the details about manage.py in `django-admin` and `manage.py`.

* The inner `fishare/` directory is the actual Python package for your project. Its name is the Python package name you’ll need to use to import anything inside it (e.g. mysite.urls).

* `fishare/__init__.py`: An empty file that tells Python that this directory should be considered a Python package. If you’re a Python beginner, read more about packages in the official Python docs.

* `fishare/settings.py`: Settings/configuration for this Django project. Django settings will tell you all about how settings work.

* `fishare/urls.py`: The URL declarations for this Django project; a “table of contents” of your Django-powered site. You can read more about URLs in URL dispatcher.

* `fishare/asgi.py`: An entry-point for ASGI-compatible web servers to serve your project. See How to deploy with ASGI for more details.

* `fishare/wsgi.py`: An entry-point for WSGI-compatible web servers to serve your project. See How to deploy with WSGI for more details.


## Updating the Structure

Tato struktura nie je velmi idealna a podla odporucani *Two Scoops of Django* je dobre mat projekt v nasledovnej stukrure:

```bash
<repository_root>/
├── <configuration_root>/
└─── <django_project_root>/
```

Pozrime sa na to blizsie.


### Top Level: Repository Root

* totalny korenovy priecinok projektu

* okrem `cofiguration_root` a `django_project_root` tu umiestnime aj veci, ako `readme.md`, `docs/`, `manage.py`, `.gitignore` a `requirements.txt`


### Second Level: Django Project Root

toto je korenovy priecinok django projektu. v podstate priecinok, ktory vznikne po spusteni prikazu `django-admin startproject` je tento priecinok.


### Second Level: Configuration Root

The <configuration_root> directory is where the settings module and base URLConf (urls.py)
are placed. This must be a valid Python package containing an __init__.py module. Even in
Python 3, if the __init__.py is not included then the <configuration_root> won’t be recog-
nized as a python package.

If using django-admin startproject, the configuration root is initially inside of the
Django project root. It should be moved to the repository root.

The files in the configuration root are part of what is generated by the
django-admin startproject command.


### Putting it all Together

priecinok `fishare/`, ktory bol vygenerovany prikazom `django-admin startproject` premenujeme na `fishare_project/`:

```bash
$ mv fishare fishare_project/
```

v priecinku `fishare_project/` premenujeme priecinok `fishare/` na `config/`:

```bash
$ cd fishare_project/
$ mv fishare/ config/
```

mozeme tu spravit niekolko kostier suborov a priecinkov:

```bash
$ touch readme.md .gitignore
$ mkdir docs/ static/ templates/
```

mozeme vytvorit aj kostru, resp. pociatocnu verziu suboru `requirements.txt`:

```bash
$ pip freeze > requirements.txt
```

aby nam to vsetko fungovalo aj po tychto zmenach, musime spravit dve upravy:

1. v subore `manage.py` je potrebne upravit riadok s nastavenim premennej prostredia na:

    ```python
    os.environ.setdefault('DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE', 'config.settings')
    ```

2. v subore `config/settings.py` treba nahradit vsetky `fishare.` za `config.`


## Additional Resources

* [Two Scoops of Django](https://www.feldroy.com/books/two-scoops-of-django-3-x) - kapitola c. 3
